# Using Journalctl to View and Manipulate Systemd Logs

_Links_:
- https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-use-journalctl-to-view-and-manipulate-systemd-logs

The *journal* is the system that collects and manages the logs and messages generated by the kernel, services, sockets, etc.
The journal is implemented with the `journald` daemon.

## Filtering 

The `journald` daemon collects data from all available sources and indexes them for viewing and manipulation. Since many-many logs are registered, knowning how to filter the logs is important.

### Time-based filtering

`journalctl -b`: Shows all journal entries collected since last boot. You can see the boots that `journald` knows about with `journalctl --list-boots`. The boots will be enumerated and the logs from a specific boot can be viewed with `journalctl -b -N` where N is the number of the boot of interest.

`journalctl --since/--until`: Shows all the logs `--since` the specified time or `--until` the specified time. Both options can be used together to narrow in on a certain time slice. The time and date is best formatted as `YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS` (any part of the time or date can be omitted and intuitive defaults will be applied). 

### Service-based filtering

`systemd` scripts define _units_ that are managed in a variety of ways. Often the simplest way to filter journal logs is to filter by unit.

`journalctl -u <unit>`: Only show logs for the unit specified by `<unit>`. For example `journalctl -u ssh --since today` would show SSH logs that were viewed today.

`journalctl -k`: Shows kernel messages from the current boot.

## Modifying the Journal Display

`journalctl --no-full`: Shows ellipse where characters that would otherwise be off screen

`journalctl -a`: Shows all (even unprintable) characters

`journalctl --no-pager`: Redirects to standard output so that the content can be piped or redirected to another file.

`journalctl -o <format>`: Outputs the entries in the format specified. Examples include: `json`, `json-pretty`, etc.

`journalctl -n <N>`: Shows the last `<N>` entries. Performs the exact same as `tail -n <N>`

`journalctl -f`: Actively follows the output of the logs.
